docs: quickstart and native permissions guides (#782)
GetStream/stream-video-js: packages/react-native-sdk/docusaurus/docs/reactnative/06-advanced/11-native-permissions.mdx

---
id: native-permissions
title: Manage Native Permissions
---

> In this guide we will create a hook to manage the native permissions required for the app to function properly.
> This hook will be used to sync the permissions of the app with the Stream Video SDK.
> 
> We will ask for relevant permissions after the parent screen is mounted and when app state changes to foreground.
> This ensures the latest permissions are synced with the Stream Video SDK, that way the SDK will subscribe to
> audio/video devices as preparation for a call.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this guide, we will create a hook to manage the native permissions required for the app to function correctly.
This hook will be used to sync the app's permissions with the Stream Video SDK.

We will ask for relevant permissions after the parent screen is mounted and when the app state changes to the foreground.
This ensures the latest permissions are synced with the Stream Video SDK, that way the SDK will subscribe to
audio/video devices in preparation for a call.
```

    ]);
    // Sync the camera and permissions with the Stream Video SDK
    // This ensures that the SDK will subscribe to audio/video devices as preparation for a call.
    androidProcessResultsAndSetToConfig(results);
  }
};

const androidProcessResultsAndSetToConfig = (
  results: Record<
    'android.permission.CAMERA' | 'android.permission.RECORD_AUDIO',
    PermissionStatus
  >,
) =>
  // Sync the permissions with the Stream Video SDK
  // by setting the permissions to the config.
  StreamVideoRN.setPermissions({
    isCameraPermissionGranted:
      results[PERMISSIONS.ANDROID.CAMERA] === RESULTS.GRANTED,
    isMicPermissionGranted:
      results[PERMISSIONS.ANDROID.RECORD_AUDIO] === RESULTS.GRANTED,
  });

const iOSProcessResultsAndSetToConfig = (
  results: Record<
    'ios.permission.CAMERA' | 'ios.permission.MICROPHONE',
    PermissionStatus
  >,
) =>
  // Sync the permissions with the Stream Video SDK
  // by setting the permissions to the config.
  StreamVideoRN.setPermissions({
    isCameraPermissionGranted:
      results[PERMISSIONS.IOS.CAMERA] === RESULTS.GRANTED,
    isMicPermissionGranted:
      results[PERMISSIONS.IOS.MICROPHONE] === RESULTS.GRANTED,
  });
```

> ## Sync Permissions on App State Change
> In order to sync the permissions when the app comes back to foreground, we will add a listener to the app state change event.
> This will ensure that the permissions are always in sync when the user comes back to the app from background after
> changing the permissions in the app's settings screen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Sync Permissions on App State Change

In order to sync the permissions when the app comes back to the foreground, we will add a listener to the app state change event.
This will ensure that the permissions are always in sync when the user comes back to the app from the background after changing the permissions in the app's settings screen.
```

        nextAppState === 'active'
      ) {
        await checkAndUpdatePermissions();
      }
    };
    const subscription = AppState.addEventListener(
      'change',
      handleAppStateChange,
    );

    return () => {
      AppState.removeEventListener('change', handleAppStateChange);
    };
  }, []);
};

const checkAndUpdatePermissions = async () => {
  if (Platform.OS === 'ios') {
    // Check, update and sync permissions on iOS
    const results = await checkMultiple([
      PERMISSIONS.IOS.CAMERA,
      PERMISSIONS.IOS.MICROPHONE,
    ]);
    // Sync the permissions with the Stream Video SDK
    iOSProcessResultsAndSetToConfig(results);
  } else if (Platform.OS === 'android') {
    // Check, update and sync permissions on Android
    const results = await checkMultiple([
      PERMISSIONS.ANDROID.CAMERA,
      PERMISSIONS.ANDROID.RECORD_AUDIO,
    ]);
    // Sync the permissions with the Stream Video SDK
    androidProcessResultsAndSetToConfig(results);
  }
};

const requestAndUpdatePermissions = async () => {...};
const androidProcessResultsAndSetToConfig = (results) => {...};
const iOSProcessResultsAndSetToConfig = (results) => {...};
```

> ## Use the Permissions Hook
> Use the permissions hook in the parent component of the call screen.
> This will ensure that the permissions are synced before the call screen is mounted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Use the Permissions Hook

Use the permissions hook in the parent component of the call screen.
This will ensure that the permissions are synced before the call screen is mounted.
```
